README.md, before:

# BoulterHarness

This is the egg packer wiring harness tester controller software for Boulter Machine Works. 
It is of no use to you unless you are Colby, but there's nothing particularly proprietary in here
so feel free to have a look.

It runs on an Adafruit Huzzah32 EPS32 Feather, your basic original ESP32 board with a USB to serial converter on the board. 4MB flash, no PSRAM, dual core CPU. Massive overkill for this job, but we wanted the WiFi interface for the web server.

It uses the SPIFFS filing system. It is important to load the file system image in addition to the firmware.
If you switch to an ESP32-S2 board you'll have to use FATFS. 

This project is built using PlatformIO run from VS Code. It uses the Arduino framework and some Arduino libraries.

It uses the I2C bus to attach to a string of four PCF8575 GPIO extenders. This provides 64 pins which are used to energize and sense the connections on the wiring harness, as each IO extender has 16 GPIO pins in two banks of 8. I2C addresses can be from 0x20 to 0x27. We're using 0x20-0x23. If we had a more complex wiring harness we could add another 64 wire endpoints. 

The web based control interface appears on "http://htester.local" via mDNS on the local internal network. It uses port 80.

Note:

The datasheet numbers the pins 0-7 and 10-17, but the PCF library uses 0-15 contiguous.

The pins are not truly bidirectional. They will sink current when you turn them ON (LED cathode to GPIO pin, LED anode to +3.3V) and are thus
inverters. 

When reading the state, they are normally pulled high. Shorting the pin to ground will give a reading of 1, thus reads are also inverted.

HTTP endpoints:

/               serves file index.html from SPIFFS partition


files served from SPIFFS partition:

/index.html
/index.js
/index.css
/logo.png
/logoblack.png
/favicon.ico    (broken, 40x40 pixel MS icon format )


/setpin?pin= < pin > & val = < val >

    Example:

    htester.local/setpin?pin=20&val=1

    will set pin number 4 on GPIO chip number two.

    returns OK

/getpin?pin= < pin >

    Example:

    htester.local/getpin?pin=2

    Returns 0 or 1

/getmap

This returns a JSON file with the default KnownGood map of wires and their descriptions. 

/setmap

This accepts a JSON file which overrides the built in wiring map and pin/connector descriptions (not yet implemented)

/scanmap

This runs a scan and returns a JSON file of success or any errors found

/scanreport

This returns a JSON map of the current wiring harness in place, for comparison with the data returned by /getmap.

Commit message:

we now append SAVE results to a CSV file on the "server".

README.md, after:

# Boulter Harness

This is the egg packer wiring harness tester controller software for Boulter Machine Works. 
It is of no use to you unless you are Colby, but there's nothing particularly proprietary in here
so feel free to have a look.

It runs on an Adafruit Huzzah32 EPS32 Feather, your basic original ESP32 board with a USB to serial converter on the board. 4MB flash, no PSRAM, dual core CPU. Massive overkill for this job, but we wanted the WiFi interface for the web server.

It uses the SPIFFS filing system. It is important to load the file system image in addition to the firmware.
If you switch to an ESP32-S2 board you'll have to use FATFS, and edit the code slightly. 

This project is built using PlatformIO run from VS Code. It uses the Arduino framework and some Arduino libraries.

It uses the I2C bus to attach to a string of four PCF8575 GPIO extenders. This provides 64 pins which are used to energize and sense the connections on the wiring harness, as each IO extender has 16 GPIO pins in two banks of 8. I2C addresses can be from 0x20 to 0x27. We're using 0x20-0x23. If we had a more complex wiring harness we could add another 64 wire endpoints. 

The web based control interface appears on "http://htester.local" via mDNS on the local internal network. It uses port 80.

Note:

The datasheet numbers the GPIO pins 0-7 and 10-17, but the Arduino PCF8575 library uses 0-15 contiguous.

The pins are not truly bidirectional. They will sink current when you turn them ON (LED cathode to GPIO pin, LED anode to +3.3V) and are thus inverters. 

When reading the state, they are normally pulled high. Shorting the pin to ground will give a reading of 1, thus reads are also inverted.

# HTTP endpoints:

/               serves file index.html from SPIFFS partition


files served from SPIFFS partition by name:

/index.html
/index.js
/index.css
/logo.png
/logoblack.png
/favicon.ico    (fixed)

/setpin?pin= < pin > & val = < val >

    Example:

    htester.local/setpin?pin=20&val=1

    will set pin number 4 on GPIO chip number two (I2C 0x21).

    returns OK

/getpin?pin= < pin >

    Example:

    htester.local/getpin?pin=2

    will return state of pin number two one GPIO chip number one (I2C 0x20).

    Returns 0 or 1

/getmap

This returns a JSON file with the default KnownGood map of wires and their descriptions. 

/setmap [not yet implemented]

This accepts a JSON file which overrides the built in wiring map and pin/connector descriptions (not yet implemented)

/scanmap

This runs a scan and returns a JSON file of success or any errors found

/scanreport

This returns a JSON map of the current wiring harness in place, for comparison with the data returned by /getmap. 

/refresh

This returns the result of the most recent scan, which could have been triggered in three different ways:
1. Clicking on "scan" on index.html
2. Doing a GET on /scanmap
3. Pressing the physical scan button on the black box.

# Black Box

The ESP32 is mounted in a black box with three LEDs and a push button.

The white LED is a power indicator. It will blink if no WiFi connection has been established. The scan button and red/green LEDS will still work in the absence of a WiFi connection.

The red LED means the most recent scan FAILED. There is a problem with the wiring harness or the test setup.

The green LED means the most recent scan PASSED. The wiring harness under test is good.

The pushbutton initiates a scan. The results are polled by the web interface (index.html) and will pop up in the browser after an average of 2 seconds. A typical scan takes ~1500 milliseconds to run, testing 4096-64=4032 possible connections.
